# MutualismRangeProject2024

Code and files for "Mutualisms alter the realized niches of legumes at a global scale". Not all data files are uploaded, as preliminary data is too big for GitHub, but most can be freely downloaded (see below). Email erinmchugh94@gmail.com with questions. 

## code

Directory **code** houses all scripts to recreate these analyses.

Scripts 1-4 work with occurrence level data, which is large, and generate a large output file of cleaned occurrences with environmental data.

Scripts 5-6 use Plants of the World Online polygons, classified as native or introduced, to classify each occurrence point as in the native range, the introduced range, or unclassified (NA).

Script 7 summarizes across all occurrences to estimate niche breadth and max and min occupancy of temperature, precipitation, and nitrogen niche axes.

Script 8 generates a phylogeny for species in this dataset.

Script 9 runs PGLS models of niche breadth vs. mutualism status.

Script 10 runs PGLS models of max and min occupancy of each niche axis vs. mutualism status.

Script 11 makes subplots for the conceptual figure. 

Script 12 makes a panel of biome counts vs. mutualism status and mutualism across latitudes. 

## data

Directory **data** contains:

Original data on mutualism from Simonsen et al. 2017 (legume_range_traits.csv).

Summaries of niche values and mutualism status for each species (pgls_species_data.csv). Output from script 7.

Summaries of niche values and mutualism status for each species with species in the polytomy dropped (pgls_species_data.csv). This is the main dataframe for analyses. Output from script 8.

## data_large

Directory **data_large** has data at the occurrence level (e.g., many rows per species). This directory should be populated with the following which can be freely downloaded and/or generated with scripts 1-6:

- original GBIF download "0008106-240229165702484.csv" (can be downloaded using key in script 1)
- bioclim 1 and 12 30s rasters (can be downloaded here https://www.worldclim.org/data/worldclim21.html)
- wwf biome data (can be downloaded here https://files.worldwildlife.org/wwfcmsprod/files/Publication/file/6kcchn7e3u_official_teow.zip)
- data from the workd checklist of vascular plants: wcvp_dwca and Special_Issue_... (available here https://sftp.kew.org/pub/data-repositories/WCVP)
- level 3 global polygons (from https://github.com/tdwg/wgsrpd/blob/master/geojson/level3.geojson)
- filtered plants of the world online shapefile (generated by script 5)
- output from coordinate cleaner "allocc_clean.csv" (generated by script 2 using gbif download as input)
- output from thinning step "allocc_thinned.csv" (generated by script 3 using script 2 output as input)
- all occurrences with environmental data "allocc_with_env.csv" (generated by script 4 using script 3 output as input)
- all occurrences with environmental data and points classified as native/introduced "allocc_with_native_status.csv" (generated by script 6 using script 4,5 output as input)


## figures 

Directory **figures** contains figures for the manuscript, generated by scripts 9-12.

## model_fits

Directory **model_fits** contains .rds files for each PGLS model fit, generated by scripts 9-10.

## phylogeny

Directory **phylogeny** contains tree files, generated by script 8.

## species_lists

Directory **species_lists** contains some intermediate species lists for examination and troubleshooting. 

## tables

Directory **tables** contains .csv files of PGLS outputs.









